---
layout: post
title: Disruption Alert!: Facebook Marketplace
---

A little background on me: I LOVE disruptions in markets. When Uber was introduced 7 years ago, I didn't know if it was going to succeed or fail, but I knew it was at least going to shake things up with the Taxi, train, and bus industries in urban areas. I couldn't have been more excited.

Now disruption can mean different things to different people so I'll tell you that I define it simply as a product or event that is going to cause discomfort for the status quo. Uber is a perfect example, but another example you may be more familiar with is how Apple disrupted the personal hardware industry with the iPad. Disruptions can be caused by anyone and anything, from the smallest startup, to industry giants like Google, to a single hacker sitting in his home.

Due to my love for disruptions, I am happy introduce the first issue of Disruption Alert! As an engineer who monitors and analyzes the tech market in his free time I want to make my readers aware of disruptions, how I believe they're going to affect the market, who the key players are, and why it's important to them and you.

## Disruption: Facebook Marketplace

Just today, Facebook [announced](http://newsroom.fb.com/news/2016/10/introducing-marketplace-buy-and-sell-with-your-local-community/) that they will be rolling out the <i>Marketplace</i> feature on their platform. This feature will allow users to "discover, buy, and sell items." In my experience, this is a feature that has technically always existed due to the ability for users to post pictures of items in local "Buy and Sell" groups and associate a price, then start a bidding war in the comments if the item is valuable enough.

### Market: Online Markets
#### Key players
<b>Craigslist:</b>
This player is so obvious that nearly every news outlet reporting on Facebook Marketplace has made the connection. Facebook will essentially be covering nearly every service that Craigslist offers in terms of physical product buying and selling. I imagine the reach of the market will be much greater on Facebook than it could ever be on Craigslist. The questions that come to me are: how will Craigslist survive, and does Craigslist even care? From the limited [literature](http://smallbusiness.chron.com/craigslist-money-27287.html) that I could find, Craigslist makes money that covers its operating costs implementing fees for posting jobs and apartments, and only in a few saturated locations like New York City or San Francisco. Perhaps they wouldn't mind essentially handing over the reigns to a competitor with more resource-availability.

The hurdle that Facebook will have to surmount is Craigslist's anonymity that it offers its users. While anonymity helps the buyers (they can track their product back to the seller so if, say, they're sold a stolen phone then they at least have a photo of the original thief) it is not in the best interest of the sellers (if an item breaks for legitimate reasons, the buyer can then harass the seller for a unfair refund)

<b>Etsy:</b> Players that people perhaps didn't think of is handmade marketplaces like Etsy where people sell their hand-made products in a more business-like online setting. What Facebook could do is allow businesses to utilize Marketplace to allow business pages and profiles to conduct transactions. Sales teams could run their entire workflow through Facebook if it was

One hurdle that Facebook will have to surmount is secured buyer-seller payments. On Etsy, there are protocols in place that ensure payment to the seller upon successful delivery of the item to the buyer. In their announcement, Facebook has stated that they will not take on the responsible of any sort of cash transfer during the process, so it will be interesting to see how the market shifts if payments must be organized between parties.

### To Be Continued...
